Continuing through now with our profiling,
getting into a little bit more of
the scarier ones with the Performance tab.
I think there's some really important
concepts before we look at the graph,
just to understand what the graph is
showing and what we should glean from it.
So I always love this picture,
they put it in one of their actual blog
post announcements, and I feel like I can
feel the overwhelming sensation in my
just when I look at all
the stuff going on here.
Like a remendous amount of code and
there's all these different
representations of it and there's red
everywhere, which is quite alarming.
So I think an important first step
takekaway, when you run a Performance
audit and you hit stop on it and it loads
up, the red is really vital imformation.
And what the red is showing you
what we call we call page jank.
Have people heard of this phrase before?
Okay, great.
So page jank is basically you can think
of it as like dropped frames essentially.
It means that the JavaScript logic or
the CSS animation was so
busy that as your monitor is refreshing,
the browser is asking for new frames,
this is kind of how this
works on a hardware level.
And if the Thread, the main thread is
too busy, then when the monitor asks for
a new frame, it won't be provided
in time and will drop the frame.
And I have some cool ways of visualizing
this with our next exercise, but
whenever you see something
like stuttering on the screen,
like maybe you're playing a video game,
and it starts like really freezing.
The reason for this is not just a general
Performance issue, it's because the Thread
was so busy doing computation that when
the monitor asked for the next paint,
it wasn't ready to give it yet.
So I was like, okay,
I don't have anything for you.
And so Nate, maybe you're seeing
a paint every four frames,
as opposed to every one, and
it starts getting that real.
So this is true in like all
sorts of media, you know,
screens have these refresh rates.
They ought to get a new frame for
every refresh, but
if you're too busy doing work, then they
don't get one, and that's what causes it.
So the red is really helpful,
because if you see red,
it means frames are being dropped.
It means that your website is not smoothly
rendering because frames are being
dropped.
It doesn't say why, but it means that
your app is too busy for too often,
that frames are being dropped.
So even without reading this whole chart,
seeing a bunch of red is like, okay,
I know I have a problem.
I'm losing some frames here, and
I think that's very valuable.
So again, Chrome has this thing
we talked about at the beginning,
this like idea of like response animation,
idle and load.
And these are, like the metrics that it
uses, you know, how fast the page load,
how often is it idle and interactable?
How quickly does it get that way?
Are the animation smooth or
are they causing page jank?
And how quickly does your app
respond to user interaction?
And the Performance page is really good
for showing a lot of this stuff, or
highlighting specific areas
where something is going wrong.
So trying to get our heads
in this Performance space,
we start getting down into like
really small amounts of time.
And human brains and how they work and
how they process information.
And there's some really nice things, but
there's some really bad things as well.
So a nice thing is that
anything under 16 milliseconds,
humans essentially see as instant.
They perceive it as completely smooth.
So if you have frames registering
every 16 milliseconds,
which is 60 frames per second,
if you do the math, which is 60 hertz,
which is what a lot of our monitors use.
You don't need to optimize
faster than that.
If you have a new frame every 16
milliseconds, human beings, human minds,
will not be able to perceive that is,
anything other than perfectly fluid and
perfectly instant.
So that's kind of what we're hoping for,
is that our web page should have
a frame to give every 16 milliseconds.
And if it does, then anything that
changes between frames will look very,
very smooth, very, very instant.
Once you get between that 16 and
100 milliseconds,
users feel like, the result is immediate
if it's an interaction, right?
So on no interaction, just viewing the web
page, 16 milliseconds is what we hope for.
Boom, boom, boom, new frames, new frames.
But on doing an interaction,
like clicking, add the card or log in, or
something like that, anything under
100 milliseconds still feels instant,
it feels really snappy.
The human mind will not really distinguish
your site between 100 milliseconds and
10 milliseconds,
all feels really good for interaction.
So another rule that we try to follow is,
when you have some button
that changes some display,
try to have a new frame ready showing
the new display within 100 Milliseconds.
And then once we get out a little bit of
that, this can kind of feel like a 100 to
1000 milliseconds can feel like
some kind of task is progressing.
You know, something's happening.
You're loading, it's an acceptable
thing for a lot of cases.
It's unacceptable for other ones.
So like doing some big computation,
you click compute, and
it takes 100 to 1000
milliseconds that can be okay.
As long as it comes in under a second,
but it's not okay for
just observing something animate on
a screen, it would be too slow for that.
And then once you get beyond one second,
you start running into all these risks of
users losing focus, and your bounce rate
climbs and your retention rate drops, and
you've got all these issues.
So we're sort of working with these very
granular numbers, but we don't really have
to remember them, because all we need
to know is run the Performance audit.
And if you see red,
it means that we failed.
We didn't deliver frames in time for
what we ought to have.
And then beyond 10s, yeah, users are
frustrated, I think we've all been there.
So another thing to keep in mind here.
So we can kind of think of like
we've got this 16 milliseconds and
this idea is that we want our task to be
completed, or at least chunked in between
them so that we can repaint the screen,
so that things look really good.
So if you were counting to
a trillion in a blocking loop,
maybe that's okay, but maybe you would
break that up into groups of a thousand.
And then do a little, set timeout
one in between each thousand and
therefore the upward will stay
interactive and stay fast.
But a thing that can stink and
this can bite you and
we'll go over this in the perfomance tab
is if an input happens during one of these
idle tasks where the CPU is busy, then
the input will register until it's done.
So, even if you have a button click and
you measure that the button click
only takes 50 milliseconds to complete,
which is still well within a good range.
If your CPU is like, too busy that when
the click happens, it queues for a long
time before it'll even start, then you can
get these, like, really slow websites.
So again, this is what's really good with
the Performance tab, because you can drill
into the real numbers to be
like when I clicked the button,
how long did you stall?
And then when you stop stalling, how long
do you actually take to render the screen,
and what's that time was that too long
did that feel like a dropped frame?
I know that we are getting kind of heavy
here, does anybody have any questions as
we are kinda starting to
get into CPU performance?
Screen repaints things like that,
nothing that needs to be
memorized I'm thinking away.
>> Speaker 2: I'm just thinking you have
to have pretty intense computation logic
going on to these days in terms of
performance to mess up the frame rate.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, so I think that
it's more of a category issue of what type
of app you're building,
like certain types of apps, like a game or
a financial app, like you could make
use of 100 percent or 100 CPU core.
I mean, you really could put it to right
and so those run into these traps a lot
when you're doing these things that
would happily greedily take, you know,
a million cores of CPU.
I definitely agree, when you're building,
like, single page applications,
where the bigger worry is gonna be,
like, page load.
Like, as the page loads, how long
does it take before it gets interact?
But then your page idle is usually
pretty good once you've got everything
kinda set up.
But there are quite a few categories of
apps where these are very real concerns,
where if you give the CPU any time,
it will fill it with some kind of task.
Whether it's animating things for
like a game or a video, or
whether it's recalculating numbers and
showing them all sorts of stuff.
So I think you're that's
like a great point, and
it really is like a category thing,
I think a lot of apps should only use
the Performance tab for their page load.
Some categories of apps should really
use it for their steady state,
to make sure that they're but I think,
yeah, a lot of apps, the page loads,
we're gonna see like 90% of the work.
And then, yeah, that's great.
Any other questions, comments,
anything like that, feeling?
>> Speaker 3: It's from a usability design
perspective, at what point should you be
adding visual animations for showing the-
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah,
this is a really good question.
Yeah, there's a lot of really
cool stuff when, well,
there's a lot of different
ways that you can.
We talk about interactivity time and
you can get away with so
much by just quickly displaying to the
user that you are working on it, right?
It's so much better to quickly change your
button into a loading button than for
them to just like sit there
waiting on the web page.
So I think you can get away with a lot by,
you know, animations or
like loading features.
I think a lot of front-end frameworks
are like moving to this where every
piece liece of the UI could be
discretely asynchronous and
have its own custom loading message.
I think again, you can over optimize,
I think in the 2015 era,
we went way too far,
where everything was a spinner.
You'd like load the dashboard,
which would be like 17 spinners, and
then they'd be so I think we can go a
little bit, a little bit far with it, but
I think that there's a lot of magic
we can do by just Technology.
Because I think of the frustration,
I think you can think about it when you
click on a button and it doesn't depress,
on the screen, you're frustrated.
You're like, I clicked you,
yeah, even if you click and
then you take a while to do it's like,
fine, you're busy, but I'm busy too.
So I think you can get, you can get away
with a lot by these really quick, and
there's all this cool stuff,
there's what's it called?
Optimistic updates where you
just assume it will work and
you start kind of rendering and then
if it didn't work then you can retract.
There's a whole bunch of really cool
information design stuff you can do but
i do think that stuff
is hugely beneficial.
Let the user know that they like the real
frustrated thing is when the Thread is
locked you scroll and
nothing moves like that is so frustrating.
So I think there's a lot of cool
stuff you can do to move around it.
>> Speaker 3: So just as a metric is,
is under 100 milliseconds
kind of that start to react?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yes, I think that
if you are already able to do,
if something already happens under
the 100 milliseconds on your app,
then there's no need to add
extra stuff if it takes longer,
I think that's a really good
place to draw the line.
Did I strike a nerve with
the speed Spinners, okay, okay.
[LAUGH] He says, yeah,
we've all been there, yeah.
So I think there's just a lot you can do.